[v7r3] Add PushJobAgent: supports Sites with no external connectivity (#5330)
DIRACGrid/DIRAC: docs/source/AdministratorGuide/HowTo/supercomputers.rst

.. _supercomputers:

===========================
Dealing with Supercomputers
===========================

> Supercomputers are highly heterogeneous infrastructures that can be composed with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supercomputers are highly heterogeneous infrastructures that can provide non-traditional architectures like:
```

 - non-x86 CPUs
 - accelerators (GPUs, FPGAs)

> They include manycore nodes and are built for applications running fast on a large number of resources: they have fast node-interconnectivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They might make use of modern multicore and manycore architectures, and are built for applications running fast on a large number of resources, having fast node-interconnectivity.
```

In the same way, some supercomputers have specific partitions only accessible for applications exploiting multiple manycore nodes simultaneously in the same allocation.
To exploit the many-node allocations, DIRAC proposes :mod:`~DIRAC.Resources.Computing.ParallelLibraries` to generate one sub-pilot per node allocated.
Sub-pilots run in parallel and share the same identifier, output and status.

To use sub-pilots in many node allocations, one has to add two additional options in the CE configuration: `ParallelLibrary=<name of a parallel library>` and `NumberOfNodes=<min-max>`.

For further details about the CE options, consult :ref:`the Sites section <cs-site>`.

CVMFS not available
-------------------

Workloads having thousands of dependencies are generally delivered via CVMFS on grid sites.
By default, CVMFS is not mounted on the nodes of supercomputers.
One can to talk with the system administrators to discuss the possibility of having it mounted on the worker nodes.
If this is not possible, then one has to use `cvmfs-exec`: https://github.com/cvmfs/cvmfsexec.
It allows mounting CVMFS as an unprivileged user, without the CVMFS package being installed by a system administrator.

> This action is purely a Site/Admin/VO action: the package has to be installed on the worker node before starting the job.

Author: I replaced `Site/Admin/VO` by `VO`.

The solution has not been integrated into DIRAC yet.

LRMS not accessible
-------------------

LRMS, also called Batch System, is the component that orchestrates the worker nodes and the workload on a site.
On grid sites, a LRMS is often accessible via a CE, and if a CE is not available, then one can interact directly with it via SSH: DIRAC handles both cases.

Nevertheless, supercomputers have more restrictive access policies than grid sites and may protect the facility access with a VPN.
In this situation, one can run a :mod:`~DIRAC.WorkloadManagementSystem.Agent.SiteDirector.` directly on the edge node of the supercomputer.

> This allows submitting pilots from the edge of the supercomputer to the worker nodes directly.

Reviewer: In this case, should the LocalComputingElement be set?

Author: Yes, I am going to add a comment about it.
I have not tried to install the `SiteDirector` on an edge node with python3 yet.
I will add further comments on this part once it will be done.

Supercomputers often do not allow users to execute a program from the edge node for a long time.
To address this problem, one can call the Site Director in a cron job, executed every N minutes for 1 cycle.

Also, to generate pilot proxies, the Site Director has to rely on a host certificate: one has to contact a system administrator for that.

> Only partial outbound connectivity

Author: Do you think it would be better?
I see the `Only partial outbound connectivity` section as an extension of the `Outbound section` as it would be probably an additional component, while `No outbound connectivity` involves different components.

> Only partial outbound connectivity

Reviewer 2: To me it sounded like three different main sections -- full, partial, no outbound connectivity -- but as there is no content in the partial case yet, it is also hard for me to understand.

> Only partial outbound connectivity

Author: Ok, I added the overline `-----` to create a section.

sent to a remote location before acting.
:mod:`~DIRAC.WorkloadManagementSystem.Utilities.RemoteRunner` attempts to extract the value from the environment variable initialized by the `JobWrapper`.
If the variable is not set, then the application is run locally via `systemCall()`, else the application is submitted to a remote Computing Element such as ARC.
:mod:`~DIRAC.WorkloadManagementSystem.Utilities.RemoteRunner` wraps the script/application command in an executable, gets all the files of the working directory that correspond to input files and submits the executable along with the input files. It gets the status of the application submitted every 2 minutes until it is finished and finally gets the outputs.

Multi-core/node allocations
---------------------------

This case has not been addressed yet.

CVMFS not available
-------------------

Workloads depending on CVMFS cannot run on such infrastructure: the only possibility is to generate a subset of CVMFS, deploy it on the supercomputer,
and mount it to a container.

> `subCVMFS-builder` (https://gitlab.cern.ch/alboyer/subcvmfs-builder) and `subCVMFS-builder-pipeline` (https://gitlab.cern.ch/alboyer/subcvmfs-builder-pipeline) are two projects aiming to assist VOs in this process.

Author: alright, I changed that
